hi guys and welcome to your you to tasks
of the week my name is Alex I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e2
language and today we are working on
IELTS listening and focusing on section
one I'll give you a quick overview of
the listening test
we'll do a warm-up practicing spelling
and numbers and then we'll do a section
one test practice so I always think
what's it all about well let's see in
our overview there are four sections in
the IELTS listening test and each with
ten questions so that makes 40 questions
and the whole test takes around 30
minutes if you're doing the paper-based
IELTS test you get an extra 10 minutes
to transfer your answer if you're doing
computer-based IELTS you don't get that
extra 10 minutes but don't worry there's
plenty of time during the test and you
put your answers directly into the
screen so actually you don't need that
extra 10 minutes in terms of scoring as
you know the IELTS goes from band 0 like
maybe you didn't turn up all the way up
to bed 9 which is expert user but the
listening test is out of 40 so how does
it work well this is the raw score
equivalency so on the left is perhaps
the score you get in the listening test
you might get 16 out of 40 23 out of 40
30 and everything in between
and on the right is the band equivalent
so for instance if you're aiming for
band 7 you need to score around 30 or
above out of 40 by the way there's no
difference between general or academic
when it comes to IELTS listening
everybody does exactly the same test and
it's scored in the same way so listening
section 1 what happens well there are
always two speakers and they're in an
everyday social context talking about
booking a holiday renting a car joining
a gym for instance and the questions are
usually gap-fill like this in section 1
you often hear spelling somebody might
spell
a name or a website and so it's
important to have the English alphabet
fresh in your mind
especially the vowels a E I owe you any
hesitation in this part can cost you
easy points in section one you may also
hear numbers and sometimes a combination
of letters and numbers so let's practice
just spelling and numbers with a quick
warmup you're going to hear three short
audios and answer three questions just
practicing hearing the alphabet and
numbers here are the three questions
grab your pen and paper let's do it one
my name is Simon Cavanaugh that's K a V
a and a ugh
to my address is 19 B River key Road
that's our IV e r qu a y
three this is my student card and my ID
is nine three four FB
pretty easy let's check the answers
shall we number one number two number
three let me know in the comments
section if you have trouble with a
particular letter or a particular number
before we try the real thing let me
remind you that our YouTube channel is
just a small part of what we do at e to
language we have a whole website with
IELTS courses and tutors and live
classes we're 100% online so you can
study whenever it suits you
let's practice section one now remember
we're going to hear two speakers in an
everyday context here are our
instructions at the top complete the
table below write one word and/or a
number so you must not write two or
three words here the heading is higher
in a meeting room and in the real test
you'll hear the example twice but today
I'm only going to play it once they'll
also be some time to read ahead before
you start and a pause in the middle in
the real test this might be after
question four or five or six make sure
you use that time to read and predict
try to read everything as fast as you
can keep the English alphabet in your
mind particularly AEIOU or maybe write
it down on your piece of paper and
beware of distractors we'll talk about
these another time are you ready you're
going to hear two people talking about
hiring a meeting room look at the
questions and then pause the video for
30 seconds to read
now we shall begin good afternoon even
meetings how can I help
oh hello my name is cam and I'm calling
about hiring a meeting room certainly
let's just check that your date is
available before we go any further when
did you want to hire the room for July
sorry June the 16th right we've got
plenty available then excellent now
we're a local business and we're
planning to just walk from our office to
your venue on the day so can I just
confirm the location with you yes of
course be 11:50 yes in the Macquarie
building Oh
isn't that on Green Road by the lake
that's quite a distance from us yeah
that's the old Macquarie building Navia
in the city centre it's level 16 B
chambero Road Port Salut Oh would you
mind spelling that for me
certainly it's GE m b o ro ug H Road
okay thanks
sorry I'm new to the area no problem
it's easy to find us we're just beside
the cinema about two blocks from the
State Library got it okay I know the
spot that's perfect it's an easy walk
from our office great so let me run
through a couple of options and we'll
work out the best one for your needs
perfect so I presume you need space for
more than ten people right yes probably
around 30 okay well there are two rooms
that would probably suit you
one is the governor room a most popular
option actually okay and how many can it
hold well we just had a meeting
yesterday with 15 people but it usually
has around 25 we just can't have more
than 35 people in there well that sounds
fine does it have all the usual things
Wi-Fi projector yes and it's also
equipped with its own coffee machine
which is probably why it's so popular
hmm and the price that one is four
hundred and forty five dollars for the
day okay and you said there was another
one there's also a stateroom another
good option for you but the maximum
capacity is 30 so we might need to check
your final numbers before locking that
one in yeah
this one has its own restroom attached
as well as a kitchen which is quite
handy and saves time during breaks
that's a good point
oh and then interactive whiteboard too
if you need that right and is it more
expensive than the first room the
stateroom is four hundred and fifteen
dollars quite a good deal actually mmm
it is now I look at questions six to ten
and pause the video for 30 seconds to
read now let's begin now prior to your
event we just need a few details from
you the best way to do this is to
complete your confirmation by our
booking form online I'll send you the
link for that that'll be great
and then just the day before our manager
will give you a ring to sort out keys we
usually leave them in a lock box so that
you can come and go as you please during
the day and you just return them at the
end okay then now what else
once your meeting is over we do ask that
you ensure the table has been wiped down
thoroughly oh of course
our cleaners will take care of the
bathroom in kitchen but any rubbish left
behind also needs to be taken out
there's a bin around the back that will
show you on the day alright that'll be
fine
any laptop or TV cables you use can also
just be brought back to the reception on
the ground floor okay got it
so let me run this by my manager and
then I'll give you a call and actually
I'm going to be away from tomorrow but
I'll give you my colleagues number
she'll be able to answer any questions
you have her name is Jenny arja that's a
our jeh and her number is zero two three
one nine two two thank you so much for
all your information
how did you go did you get ten out of
ten let's have a look at the answers
give yourself a score out of ten and let
me know in the comments below how you
went
well I hope you found this useful and
make sure that you subscribe like
comment and share with your friends who
are preparing for IELTS if you want to
join our live classes come and join us
at ET language dot-com conquer your
Isles and be more today see you soon bye
[Music]